you remember what was at stake this was
about rolling health care back for
millions and millions and millions of
people and we were a 48-52 Senate at
that moment the bill had already passed
the House and we all know if it got even
to 50/50 people were going to lose
health care around this country because
the vice president would break the tie
in and roll back this health care and so
Susan Collins had already committed Lisa
Murkowski had already committed Lisa
Murkowski who was the third Republican
and I had gone over to talk with John he
had just gotten back he had found out
that he had this devastating diagnosis
and he had been listening to the
arguments that we had been making that
past week I spent a lot of time talking
to John McCain in the days leading up to
that we were very close and we're all on
the floor that night for the vote
including the vice president who's
wandering around and trying to make sure
that all the folks are staying in line
on the Republican side and we were
talking about it and what he was going
to do and all of a sudden he pointed to
both of us he said you two are right and
it was then that I knew he was going to
vote no he's pretty much a contrarian in
a lot of ways I mean this is a man who
doesn't suffer fools gladly and who has
a temper
I was standing at the desk like I just
couldn't sit down I was I was too
anxious and watching the votes and so we
had all the Democrats that's 48 susan
collins voted no that gave us 49 lisa
murkowski voted no that gave us 50 those
were all the known commitments there was
a tap on my shoulder and I turned around
and it was vice president pence who
clearly had been sent over to lobby John
and to try to get him back into line
whew well and you're looking around it
is there anybody else who might vote to
save healthcare for all of these
families where's John McCain and he's
not there
so I excused myself so that they could
have their conversation shortly after
that the president called him and John
went into the cloakroom to take that
call before the vote occurred it was a
very dramatic moment on the Senate floor
and he rounds the corner I remember
standing there watching and he comes
around that corner no fuss no muss time
wait for his name again and you could
actually hear some gasps in the chamber
when he did so and I knew what would
happen John McCain again would do what
he thought was the right thing no matter
what the pressure to me that is one of
the things that I so admire about John
he does what he thinks is right and that
doesn't mean I always agree with him
we've had our tussles over the years and
disagreements that thumbs-down could sum
up his entire career he did what he knew
was right
[Music]